**Question 1**

What term is used to describe connecting a mobile device to another mobile device or computer to share a network connection?

**A:** **Tethering**

**Question 2**

Which wireless technology uses a device-pairing process to communicate and operates over short distances of 100 meters?

**A:** **Bluetooth**

**Question 3**

What technology enables a cell phone to be used as a hands-free device?

**A:** **Bluetooth**

**Question 4**

A student purchased a new Wi-Fi-enabled tablet computer. What is required to connect this device to the internet?

**A:** **A wireless LAN**

**Question 5**

Which technology allows a mobile device to establish wireless communication with another mobile device by touching them together?

**A:** **NFC**

**Question 6**

Which technology will allow a mobile device to share an internet connection with other devices via tethering?

**A:** **Bluetooth**

**Question 7**

What are two methods typically used on a mobile device to provide internet connectivity? (Choose two.)

**A:** **Cellular and WiFi**

**Question 8**

Which wireless technology allows a customer to connect to a payment system with a smartphone?

**A:** **NFC**

**Question 9**

A salesperson is using a smartphone map application to locate a business. What wireless technology enables the smartphone to receive satellite geolocation information for the map application?

**A:** **GPS**

**Question 10**

What two pieces of information are required when manually connecting either an iOS device or an Android device to a secured wireless network? (Choose two.)

**A:** **The SSID and the Password**

**Question 11**

Which wireless technology can be used to connect wireless headphones to a computer?

**A:** **Bluetooth**

