> Clients and Servers

All computers connected to a network that participate directly in network communication are classified as hosts. Hosts can send and receive messages on the network. In modern networks, computer hosts can act as a client, a server, or both. The software installed on the computer determines which role the computer plays.

Client and server software usually run on separate computers, but it is also possible for one computer to run both client and server software at the same time. In small businesses and homes, many computers function as the servers and clients on the network. This type of network is called a P2P network. In larger businesses, because of the potential for high amounts of network traffic, it is often necessary to have dedicated servers to support the number of service requests. P2P networks are easy to set up, less complex, lower in cost, and can be used for simple tasks such as transferring files and sharing printers. However, there is no centralized administration. They have less security, are not scalable, and can perform slower.

> Network Components 

There are symbols that represent various types of networking equipment. The network infrastructure is the platform that supports the network. It provides the stable and reliable channel over which our communications can occur. The network infrastructure contains three categories of hardware components: end devices, intermediate devices, and network media. Hardware is often the visible components of the network platform such as a laptop, PC, switch, router, wireless access point, or the cabling used to connect the devices. Components that are not visible include wireless media.

End devices, or hosts, form the interface between users and the underlying communication network. Some examples of end devices include:

- Computers (workstations, laptops, file servers, web servers)
- Network printers
- Telephones and teleconferencing equipment
- Security cameras
- Mobile devices (such as smartphones, tablets, PDAs, and wireless debit/credit card readers and barcode scanners)

> ISP Connectivity Options

An ISP provides the link between the home network and the internet. An ISP can be the local cable provider, a landline telephone service provider, the cellular network that provides your smartphone service, or an independent provider who leases bandwidth on the physical network infrastructure of another company. Each ISP connects to other ISPs to form a network of links that interconnect users all over the world. ISPs are connected in a hierarchical manner that ensures that internet traffic generally takes the shortest path from the source to the destination.

The interconnection of ISPs that forms the backbone of the internet is a complex web of fiber-optic cables with expensive networking switches and routers that direct the flow of information between source and destination hosts.

For a home user, connecting to the ISP is a fairly uncomplicated process. This is the most common connection option. It consists of using a wireless integrated router to connect to the ISP. The router includes a switch to connect wired hosts and a wireless AP to connect wireless hosts. The router also provides client IP addressing information and security for inside hosts. The two most common methods are cable and DSL. Other options include cellular, satellite, and dial-up telephone.


