### Post Compromise Enumeration Intro

Tools:
**Powerview** - Allows us to look at a network and enumerate the Domain Controller, Domain Policy, and Domain Users Group. A powershell tool.

**Bloodhound** - Allows us to visualise, in a graph form, what is going on in a Domain and a Network, and where to find a logged in sensitive user, or the shortest path to getting Domain Admin.

Installing powerview: https://github.com/PowerShellEmpire/PowerTools/tree/master/PowerView
Add to the WIndows VM. This saves us from having to transfer it from Kali which is what we would do in a real environment. We can copy the raw file into a text editor and save it or just download it from git. 

### Powerview

Load up a cmd and we can use the following commands.

Move into PowerShell (PS)
```sh
powershell -ep bypass
```
- ep - Execution policy. Stops from accidentally executing a script.

Start powerview
```ps
..\powerview
```
- Nothing will happen, it will just load it. 

Get domain information
```ps
Get-NetDomain
```

Get domain controller
```ps
Get-NetDomainController
```
- This will provide the domain name and IP

Get domain policy
```ps
Get-DomainPolicy
```

Get domain policy system access 
```ps
(Get-DomainPolicy)."system access"
```
- Shows minimum password length which you could use to modify your wordlist

Get users
```ps
Get-NetUser
```
- If a user has set a password reminder in description it will show it here.

Get just the username details
```ps
Get_NetUser | select cn
```

Get just the account names
```ps
Get-NetUser | select samaccountname
```

Get just the descriptions

```ps
Get-NetUser | select description
```

Other information available:
- User account number or RID with 500 being admin.
- Last login
- Bad password count number

List user properties
```ps
Get-UserProperty
```

Get Password last set within user properties
```ps
Get-UserProperty --Properties pwdlastset
```
- Maybe there is an old password on the network

Logon count (identify honeypot accounts)
```ps
Get-NetProperty --Properties logoncount
```
- If a user has never logged in, it could be a honeypot account

Bad password count
```ps
Get-NetProperty --Properties badpwdcount
```
- If a user has a lot of bad password entries it could be a sign of it being used in an attack (failed hydra attempts)

View computers
```ps
Get-NetComputer
```

Extended information on the computers
```ps
Get-NetComputer -FullData
```

Narrow the search 
```ps
Get-NetComputer -FullData | select OperatingSystem
```
- Select is like grep

Find groups
```ps 
Get-NetGroup
```

Limit the search to domain admins
```ps
Get-NetGroup -GroupName "Domain Admins"
```

Using a wildcard
```ps
Get-NetGroup -GroupName *admin*
```

Get members of groups
```ps
Get-NetGroupMember -GroupName "Domain Admins"
```

Look for SMB shares
```ps
Invoke-ShareFinder
```

Search for group policies
```ps
Get-NetGPO
```
- Will output a lot of data

Narrow the search to make it more readable
```ps
Get-NetGPO | select displayname, whenchanged
```
- Narrows the search to see what policies they have and when it was changed

---
### BloodHound

Installing bloodhound: https://github.com/SpecterOps/BloodHound
```sh
apt install bloodhound
```

Resources: https://blog.harmj0y.net/category/activedirectory/

Bloodhound runs on neo4j so we will have to set that up.
```sh
neo4j console
```

Changing the default user/pass.
1. open up local host link that the previous command gives you.
2. The login details are `neo4j` for both the pass and username.
3. Add a new password. 

neo4j might have to be left open. Now we can open bloodhound by typing it into the terminal. This will bring up a new browser window.

Download and set up an injestor `invoke-bloodhound`  
https://github.com/SpecterOps/BloodHound-Legacy/wiki/Data-Collector/6c75b90e09efea4251f5757914d90b50434d30b7

https://github.com/SpecterOps/BloodHound-Legacy/blob/master/Collectors/SharpHound.ps1

Now we can put sharphound on the Windows VM, like we did with powerview.

Powershell
```cmd
powershell -ep bypass
```

Start bloodhound
```ps
..\SharpHound
```

Invoke bloodhound
```ps
Invoke-BloodHound -CollectionMethod All -D Marvel.local -ZipFileName file.zip
```

Copy the zipfile on to your host machine and then into kali. When you have the file in kali, on the right, you can upload data.  At the top left hamburger symbol you can view:
- Database info
- Node info
- Queries

Inside the pre-bui;t quires you can select, for example, find all domain admins. It can also find the shortest path to the domain admins which is useful for token impersonation (mimikatz). 

---

**Summary for interviews**

**PowerView** - What can we find
- Users
- Groups
- Policies
	- group 
	- users

**BloodHound** - What can we view
- Administrators 
- What administrators are on which machines
- What is my shorted path to the domain admin
- What are my high value targets






























