Bluetooth pairing occurs when two Bluetooth devices establish a connection to share resources. In order for the devices to pair, the Bluetooth radios are turned on, and one device begins searching for other devices. Other devices must be set to discoverable mode, also called visible, so that they can be detected. When a Bluetooth device is in discoverable mode, it transmits the following information when another Bluetooth device requests it:

- Name
- Bluetooth class
- Services that the device can use
- Technical information, such as the features or the Bluetooth specification that it supports

During the pairing process, a personal identification number (PIN) may be requested to authenticate the pairing process. The PIN is often a number, but can also be a numeric code or passkey. The PIN is stored using pairing services, so it does not have to be entered the next time the device tries to connect. This is convenient when using a headset with a smart phone, because they are paired automatically when the headset is turned on and within range.

To pair a Bluetooth device with an Android device, follow these steps:

**Step 1.** Follow the instructions for your device to place it in discoverable mode.

**Step 2.** Check the instructions for your device to find the connection PIN.

**Step 3.** Select **Settings > Wireless and networks.**

**Step 4.** Touch **Bluetooth** to turn it on.

**Step 5.** Touch the **Bluetooth tab.**

**Step 6.** Touch **Scan for devices.**

**Step 7.** Touch the discovered device to select it.

**Step 8.** Type the PIN.

**Step 9.** Touch the device name again to connect to it.

To pair a Bluetooth device with an iOS device, follow these steps:

**Step 1.** Follow the instructions for your device to place it in discoverable mode.

**Step 2.** Check the instructions for your device to find the connection PIN.

**Step 3.** Select **Settings > Bluetooth.**

**Step 4.** Touch **Bluetooth** to turn it on.

**Step 5.** Touch the discovered device to select it.

**Step 6.** Type the PIN.

Remember that mobile device operating systems are updated frequently. Always refer to the documentation of the manufacturer for your specific model device for the latest command reference.