This is a common question when it comes to data collection and report writing: Exactly when should I start putting together this information? A report is the final outcome of a penetration testing effort. The most accurate and comprehensive way to compile a report is to start collecting and organizing the results while you are still testing. In other words, you need to understand the process of ongoing documentation during testing. As you come across findings that need to be documented, take screenshots of the tools used, the steps, and the output. This will help you piece together exactly the scenario that triggered the finding and illustrate it for the end user. You should include these screenshots as part of the report because including visual proof is the best way for your audience to gain a full picture of and understand the findings. Sometimes it may even be necessary to create a video. In summary, taking screenshots, videos, and lots of notes will help you create a deliverable report.

When it comes to constructing a final penetration testing report, one of the biggest challenges is pulling together all the data and findings collected throughout the testing phases. This is especially true when the penetration test spans a long period of time. Longer test spans often require a lengthier sorting process and use of specialized tools, such as Dradis, to find the information you are looking to include in your report.

Dradis is a handy little tool that can ingest the results from many of the penetration testing tools you use and help you produce reports in formats such as CSV, HTML, and PDF. It is very flexible because it includes add-ons and allows you to create your own. If you find yourself in a situation where you need to import from a new tool that is not yet compatible, you can write your own add-on to accomplish this.

**TIP** There are two editions of the Dradis Framework. The Community Edition (CE) is an open-source version that is freely available under the GPLv2 license. The Professional Edition (PE) is a commercial product that includes additional features for managing projects as well as more powerful reporting capabilities. The Community Edition can be found at [_https://github.com/dradis/dradis-ce_](https://github.com/dradis/dradis-ce). Information on the Professional Edition is available at [_https://dradisframework.com_](https://dradisframework.com) .

