**Protego Security Solutions**

Reports are a kind of communication. Many of the things that we do when we talk to other people are relevant to writing a report. We make many decisions when we speak to other people. These decisions enable us to choose the words and ideas we use according to who we are speaking to. For example, when we are talking about something that we think the person doesn’t know much about, we simplify our language and provide explanations to help them to understand. If we need to ask a question of someone who is working in a busy place, we quickly ask our question and move on after it is answered. We don’t try to engage in a conversation. And if we are talking to someone who we greatly respect, we speak more formally, avoid slang, and use words that communicate politeness.

Writing a report is similar. We need to provide information for busy people, details for technical people, and use language that expresses respect for our customer. We should never be critical or talk down to our audience.

Writing a good report takes practice and thought. It is an art. Read ahead to learn some of the considerations that must be made when we create this product for our audience.

---

One of the most important aspects to keep in mind when writing a report is who your report audience is. If you write a report that only a highly technical audience (technical staff) can understand and deliver it to an audience that is not very technical, the report will not show its value, and your hard work will go unnoticed. A clearly written executive summary is important because it breaks down the technical findings into summary explanations and provides enough information that all technical levels can understand the results and see value in the deliverable. Of course, you still need to cover all the technical details in other sections of the report. You can see that it is important to consider not only who you are delivering the report to but also who they will be passing it along to. You may end up presenting your final report to the executive or senior management level (the **_C-suite_** ). Typically, they will turn over the findings of the report to other teams, such as IT, information security, developers, or even third-party stakeholders to address the issues found. The technical sections of the report must provide enough information for those teams to be able to take action.

**NOTE** _C-suite_ refers to upper or executive-level managers within a company. Common c-suite executives include the chief executive officer (CEO), chief financial officer (CFO), chief operating officer (COO), chief information officer (CIO), and chief security officer (CSO).

A pen tester typically uses various tools throughout the testing phases of a penetration test, and some of these tools have the capability to produce impressive reports in various formats. This is a good feature for a tool to have. However, just because a tool has this capability does not mean you should use it to export the findings and simply regurgitate those findings in your final report. There are almost always false positives or false negatives in the results of any tool. For this reason, you must carefully review the results of a tool’s output and try to determine what the actual vulnerabilities mean to the target. You must take into consideration the business of the target to be able to determine the impact on the environment. From there you will be able to compile a plan for how the findings should be prioritized and addressed.

