## What are Scheduled Tasks?

Scheduled Tasks are Windows computer programs or scripts that are executed automatically based on a specified `schedule` or `trigger condition`.

They are managed by the *Task Scheduler* and they can be used for various types of tasks:

- Backup operations
- System maintenance
- Custom scripts

As always, when we have a system that is designed to `execute arbitray code` we must be careful into how it is being used and in who has access to such system, as it represents an attack surface.

## Scheduled Tasks Data

Scheduled tasks contains different kinds of data.
### General Information

We start with basic information about the task:
- **Name**
- **Path**

The folder path in the Task Scheduler Library where the task is stored.
- **Description**
- **Enabled/Disabled**
- **Author**

---

Notice that for tasks the identifier path+name has to be unique. This means that

- Task with the same name can exists in different folders.
- In the same folder, task with the same name cannot exist.

### Triggers

Triggers specify the conditions under which the task will run. There are different types of triggers:

- **Time-based Triggers**
Run daily, weekly, monthly, or at a specific time.

- **Event-based Triggers**
Triggered by system events like user logon, system startup, or an event in the event log.

- **Custom Triggers**
Can include conditions like idle time, connection to a network, or workstation lock/unlock.

Each trigger includes:
- Start time/date
- Recurrence Interval
- End date/time (optional)

### Actions

Specifies the task to be executed:
- Executable Path / Command
- Arguments
- Working Directory

### Conditions

Specify the conditions under which the task will run:
- Idle Time
- Power Conditions
- Network Conditions

### Settings

General execution settings:
- Allow Task to be Run on Demand
- Run Task as Soon as Possible After a Missed Start
- Restart on Failure
- Stop Task if it Runs Longer Than
- Start in Specific Window

### Security Settings

With respect to security, it is important to consider the following settings:

- **Run as User**
The user account under which the task runs.

- **Run with Highest Privileges**
Runs the task with elevated permissions if needed.

- **Group Access Permissions**
Defines which user groups can modify or run the task.

### Last Run/Execution Information

Finally:

- **Last Run Time**
Timestamp of the last successful run

- **Last Run Result / Status**
Exit code or success/error details.

- **Next Run Time**
The next scheduled execution time.

