## Windows Hashes

Windows uses several different hash formats.

### LM (LAN Manager) Hash

Oldest password storage used by Windows.  Turned off by default since Windows Vista/Windows Server 2008.

Algorithm for computing it
- Ref: https://medium.com/@petergombos/lm-ntlm-net-ntlmv2-oh-my-a9b235c58ed4

Example:
> 1. Convert all lower case to upper case
> 2. Pad password to 14 characters with NULL characters
> 3. Split the password to two 7 character chunks
> 4. Create two DES keys from each 7 character chunk
> 5. DES encrypt the string "KGS!@#$%" with these two chunks
> 6. Concatenate the two DES encrypted strings. This is the LM hash.

Check LM hash configuration, if it returns `1` it means LM hashes are not generated.
```powershell
Get-ItemProperty -Path 'HKLM:\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa' -Name 'NoLMHash'
```

### NTLM Hash

The way passwords are stored on Modern Systems.  This is what we obtain when dumping the SAM database.

```powershell
MD4(UTF-16-LE(password))
```

Where `UTF-16-LE` is the little endian of `UTF-16`.

For example, the NTLM hash of `password` is:
```powershell
8846F7EAEE8FB117AD06BDD830B7586C
```

### Net-NTLMv1

The NTLM protocol uses the NTHash in a challenge/response between server and client.

It is possible to obtain a response to crack from a client using tools such as `responder'.

Algorithm for computing it
- Ref: https://medium.com/@petergombos/lm-ntlm-net-ntlmv2-oh-my-a9b235c58ed4

```c
C = 8-byte server challenge, random
K1 | K2 | K3 = LM/NT-hash | 5-bytes-0
response = DES(K1,C) | DES(K2,C) | DES(K3,C)
```

### Net-NTLMv2

New version of the `NTLM' protocol.

It is possible to obtain a response to crack from a client using tools such as `responder'.

Algorithm for computing it
- Ref: https://medium.com/@petergombos/lm-ntlm-net-ntlmv2-oh-my-a9b235c58ed4

```c
SC = 8-byte server challenge, random
CC = 8-byte client challenge, random
CC* = (X, time, CC2, domain name)
v2-Hash = HMAC-MD5(NT-Hash, user name, domain name)
LMv2 = HMAC-MD5(v2-Hash, SC, CC)
NTv2 = HMAC-MD5(v2-Hash, SC, CC*)
response = LMv2 | CC | NTv2 | CC*
```

---

To check whether the system is running NTLMv1 or NTLMv2 you can check as follows:
```powershell
Get-ItemProperty -Path 'HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa' -Name 'LMCompatibilityLevel'
```

If the path does not exist, then the default is used, which is `Net-NTLMv2`.

### Kerberos

Used for Authentication.  For example Ticket Hashes (TGT and TGS).

Will be explored more in the `active directory` series.

### DPAPI

Hashed used for Data Encryption.

