## Credential Manager

The `credential manager` is a Windows feature that allows the centralised storage of user credentials such as:

- usernames
- passwords
- certificates

It provides a simple way to store and retrieve credentials for systems and applications without requiring users to repeatedly enter their authentication details.

Credentials are securely stored using the `Windows Data Protection API` (DPAPI).

## Why is it dangerous?

Even though the data at store is encrypted using the DPAPI, If a malicious actor gets hold of a session with stored credentials, while it is not possible to read the plaintext passwords, it is still possible to actively use those credentials for malicious purposes.

Example:
> session is compromised => all credentials saved in the manager can be used

Therefore, be careful on the credentials you store on your session, and protect access to your session in the first place.

## Using Credential manager

To access the credential manager:
> Control Panel -> User Accounts
>             -> Credential Manager
>              -> Web Credentials or Windows Credentials

To list out all stored credentials:
```cmd
cmdkey /list
```

To add new credentials:
```cmd
cmdkey /add:MyServer /user:MyUser /pass:MyPassword
```

To delete credentials:
```cmd
cmdkey /delete:MyServer
```

```cmd
cmdkey /delete:Domain:interactive=WORKGROUP\Administrator
```

Open a shell as a new user and save credential into the manager. The first time it asks for the password.
```cmd
runas /savecred /user:quickem-h5dsq1v\quickemu powershell.exe
```

After the credentials have been stored, it is possible to use them again.  This time the password is not asked anymore.
```cmd
runas /savecred /user:quickem-h5dsq1v\quickemu "cmd.exe"
```

