## Data Protection
Process of saving data from corruption, compromise or loss.

## Data Classifications
#### Commercial Businesses Use:
- **Public**
	- No impact if released
- **Sensitive**
	- Minimal impact (organization's financial data)
- **Private**
	- Only should be used within the organization (personal info, salary info)
- **Confidential**
	- Serious impact (Trade secrets, intellectual property, source code)
- **Critical**
	- Valuable information (Few trusted individuals)
#### Government Uses:
- **Unclassified**
	- Can be released to public or under Freedom of Information Act
- **Sensitive but Unclassified**
	- Would not hurt national security, but could impact those whose data is being used
- **Confidential**
	- Could seriously affect the govt
- **Secret**
	- Could seriously damage national security
- **Top Secret**
	- Would gravely damage national security

## Data Ownership
Process of identifying the person responsible for the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and privacy of the information assets.
#### Data Owner
Senior executive role that has the responsibility for maintaining the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information asset. Should be from the business entity, each owner assigned to their own department.
#### Data Controller
Entity that holds responsibility for deciding the purposes and methods of data storage, collection, and usage, and for guaranteeing the legality of the process.
#### Data Processor
Group or individual hired by the data controller to help with tasks like collecting, storing, or analysing data.
#### Data Steward
Focused on the quality of the data and the associated metadata.
#### Data Custodian
Responsible for handling the management  of the system on which the data assets are stored.
Examples:
- System Administrator
- Privacy Officer (PII, SPI, PHI)

## Data States
#### Data at Rest
Refers to any data stored in databases, file systems, or other storage systems. Prime target for threat actors.
- Encryption Methods
	- Full Disk Encryption
	- Partition Encryption
	- File Encryption
	- Volume Encryption
	- Database Encryption
	- Record Encryption
#### Data in Transit
Data actively being moved from one location to another, such as across the Internet or private network. Vulnerable to interception.
- Encryption Methods:
	- SSL and TLS
		- Provide secure comms over computer network
	- VPNs
		- Create secure connections over less secure network
	- IPSec
		- Secure IP comms by authenticating and encrypting each IP packet in a data stream
#### Data in Use
Refers to data in the process of being created, retrieved, updated, or deleted.
- Security Methods
	- Application Level Encryption
	- Access Controls
	- Secure Enclaves
	- Intel Software Guard
## 
Data Types
#### Regulated Data
Controlled by laws, regulations, or industry standards. Includes PII, PHI, Credit Cards etc.
- General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
- Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
#### Trade Secrets
#### Intellectual Property
#### Legal Information
#### Financial Information
#### Human-Readable vs. Non-Human Readable Data
- Does not require a machine/software to read vs. does require a machine/software to read.
## 
Data Sovereignty
Refers to the concept that digital information is subject to the laws of the country in which it is located.
###### General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
Has stringent rules for data protection and grants individuals strong rights over their personal data.

## Securing Data
#### Geographic Restrictions (Geofencing)
Involves setting up virtual boundaries to restrict data access based on geographic location.
#### Encryption
#### Hashing
Store passwords and other sensitive data, or checking data integrity (file hashes)
#### Masking
Masking data in a field.
#### Tokenization
Replacing sensitive data with non-sensitive substitutes, known as tokens.
#### Obfuscation
Involves making data unclear or unintelligible, making it difficult for unauthorized users to understand.
#### Segmentation
Dividing a network into separate segments, each with their own security controls. Limits breach damage.
#### Permission Restrictions
Access control, role-based access control, etc.

## Data Loss Prevention (DLP)
Set up to monitor the data of a system while it's in use, in transit, or at rest in order to detect any attempts to steal the data.
#### Endpoint DLP System
Usually installed on a workstation or laptop, and it is going to monitor the data that's in use on that computer. Alerts to detect/prevent data exfils.
#### Network DLP System
A piece of hardware or software that is a solution placed at the perimeter of the network to detect data in transit.
#### Storage DLP
Software installed on a server in the data center and inspects the data while it's at rest on the server.
#### Cloud-based DLP System
SaaS, offered as part of the cloud service and storage needs.