## Supply Chain Risk
#### Hardware Manufacturer
Conduct rigorous chain assessments and purchase additional hardware from secondary and aftermarket hardware (comes with more risk).
#### Software Developers
Should be checked that it is properly certified and scanned with antivirus.
#### Managed Service Providers (MSPs)
Organizations that provide a range of technology services and support to businesses and other clients.
Unique considerations:
- Evaluate data security measures
- Ensure confidentiality and integrity
- Assess cyber security protocols
- Response to the security breach (if occurred)

## Supply Chain Attacks
Involves targeting a weaker link in the supply chain to gain access to a primary target.
Mitigations:
- Vendor due diligence
- Regular monitoring and audits
- Education and collaboration
- Incorporating contractual safeguards
#### CHIPS Act
US federal statute that provides roughly $280 billion in new funding to boost research and manufacturing of semiconductors inside the United States

## Vendor Assessment
Perform penetration testing on your vendors and service providers. Include a right to audit clause in your contract with the vendor/MSP.
#### Internal Audit
Vendor's self assessment against industry standards.
#### Independent Assessment
Evaluation conducted by third-party entities with no stake in the organization's or vendors operations.
#### Supply Chain Analysis
Dive deep into the supply chain of a vendor and assess the security and reliability of each link.

## Vendor Selection
Things to consider:
- Financial Stability
- Operational History
- Client Testimonials
- On-the-ground Practices
- Conflicts of Interest
#### Vendor Questionnaires
Comprehensive documents that potential vendors fill out to offer insights into the operations, capabilities, and compliance.
Might include:
- Data Redundancy Measures
- Security Protocols
- Uptime Guarantees
- Disaster Recovery Plans
#### Rules of Engagement
Guidelines that dictate the terms of interaction between an organization and its potential vendors.
- Communication Protocols
- Data Sharing Policies
- Negotiation Boundaries
#### Monitoring
Mechanism to ensure that the chosen vendor still aligns with the organizational needs and standards because:
- Businesses evolve
- Market dynamics shift
- Vendors undergo changes
#### Feedback Loops
Involve two-way communication channel where both the organization and vendor can share feedback

## Contract Agreements
Basic contracts are the foundation stone of most business relationships.
#### Basic Contract
Versatile tool that formally establishes a relationship between two parties.
#### Service-Level Agreement (SLA)
Standard of service a client can expect from a provider
#### Memorandum of Agreement (MOA)
Formal outlines the specific responsibilities and roles of the involved parties.
#### Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
Less binding and more of a declaration of mutual intent.
#### Master Service Agreement (MSA)
Blanket agreement that covers the general terms of engagement between parties across multiple transactions.
#### Statement of Work (SOW)
Used to specify details for a particular project.
- Deliverables
- Timelines
- Milestones
### Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA)
Commitment to privacy that ensures any sensitive information shared during negotiations remain confidential between both parties.
#### Business Partnership Agreement
Document that goes a step beyond the basic contract when two entities decide to pool their resources for mutual benefit.