## Registry Hives

The Windows registry is a hierarchical database structured following a tree-like data structure into `registry hives`.

Each hive is made up of multiple keys and values, and these hives are stored as files on the system. These data sources are very useful for `threat intelligence`, as they can be used as `Indicator of Compromise` (IOC) for specific malware.

There are five hives, and these are:
- HKCR: HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT
- HKLM: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE
- HKU: HKEY_USERS
- HKCU: HKEY_CURRENT_USER
- HKCC: HKEY_CURRENT_CONFIG

For each hive, we have a respective file:
- HKCR: C:\Windows\System32\Config\Software
- HKLM: C:\Windows\System32\Config\SYSTEM
- HKU: C:\Windows\System32\Config\DEFAULT
- HKCU: C:\Users\<UserName>\NTUSER.DAT
- HKCC: C:\Windows\System32\Config\SystemProfile

## Critical Registry Paths

Certain registry paths could lead to security risk if miss-configured, as they can be abused to obtain privilege escalation.

### HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\

Services are a common target for privilege escalation that was already discussed in the series:
- Windows Services
- Weak Service Permissions
- Unquoted Service Path

Specifically, by having write access to the registry path
```powershell
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\
```

It is possible to change the `imagePath` attribute of arbitrary services. This attribute is used to determine the executable to start when the service is started.

To modify the service `test`
```powershell
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\simpleService" -Name ImagePath -Value "C:\Users\Quickemu\Downloads\test.exe"
```

```powershell
Get-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\simpleService"
```

By modifying the binary with a malicious binary, it is possible to hijack execution. Remember to restart the service.
```powershell
Restart-Service -Name test
```

- Windows Services: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R9pDCdBWTAk
- Weak Service Permissions: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8sLagxX4OVs
- Unquoted Service Path: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hj3Y40z2dSQ

### HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows\AppInit_DLLs

The `AppInit_DLLs` registry key specifies a list of DLLs that Windows will load into every user-mode application that uses the Microsoft Windows graphical user interface (GUI), specifically those that use the Windows subsystem for applications (Win32).

Since any DLL listed in `AppInit_DLLs` will be loaded by every GUI-based process, this registry key has historically been a target for malicious software. Malware may attempt to use this key to inject its own malicious DLLs into system processes or applications.

As a result, modern versions of Windows have additional protections to restrict or limit the use of AppInit_DLLs, such as blocking the use of the key unless a specific setting is configured to allow it.

Dealing with `LoadAppInit_DLLs`
1. Enable
```powershell
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows" -Name "LoadAppInit_DLLs" -Value 1
```

2. Disable
```powershell
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows" -Name "LoadAppInit_DLLs" -Value 0
```

3. Read
```powershell
Get-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows" -Name "LoadAppInit_DLLs"
```

Dealing with `AppInit_DLLs`
1. Read
```powershell
Get-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows" -Name "AppInit_DLLs"
```

2. Set
```powershell
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows" -Name "AppInit_DLLs" -Value "C:\Path\To\Library1.dll;C:\Path\To\Library2.dll;C:\Path\To\Library3.dll"
```

### HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run

These keys determine which applications start automatically.

If these are writable by non-privileged users, attackers can add entries to run malicious programs at startup.

- HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run

	- Affects all users on the system. Programs listed here will run at startup for every user who logs in. Requires administrator privileges to modify.

- HKCU\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run

	- Affects only the currently logged-in user.  Programs listed here will run only when the specific user logs in.  Can be modified by the user without administrator privileges.

---

There are also the `RunOnce` keys, which instead specify programs that should run only once at the next startup, and then the registry entry is deleted.
- HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce
- HKCU\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce

---

To add new entries:
```powershell
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run" -Name "TestProgram" -Value "C:\Users\Quickemu\Downloads\test.exe"
```


### HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon

The Winlogon registry key is used primarily to configure how Windows interacts with the logon process.

Possible value names:
- Shell
```powershell
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon" -Name "Shell" -Value "cmd.exe"
```

```powershell
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon" -Name "Shell" -Value "explorer.exe"
```

- Userinit
```powershell
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon" -Name "Userinit" -Value "C:\Windows\system32\userinit.exe"
```

--- 
## References

Registry Hives: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/sysinfo/registry-hives

The Windows Registry Adventure #4: Hives and the registry layout: https://googleprojectzero.blogspot.com/2024/10/the-windows-registry-adventure-4-hives.html

Mysteries of the Registry: https://scorpiosoftware.net/2022/04/15/mysteries-of-the-registry/

Course Material: https://github.com/LeonardoE95/yt-en/blob/main/src/2024-12-19-windows-privesc-critical-registry-paths/content/notes.txt


