## Window Logon process

### HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run

These keys determine which applications start automatically.

If these are writable by non-privileged users, attackers can add entries to run malicious programs at startup.

- HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run

	- Affects all users on the system. Programs listed here will run at startup for every user who logs in. Requires administrator privileges to modify.

- HKCU\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run

	- Affects only the currently logged-in user.  Programs listed here will run only when the specific user logs in.  Can be modified by the user without administrator privileges.

---

There are also the `RunOnce` keys, which instead specify programs that should run only once at the next startup, and then the registry entry is deleted.
- HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce
- HKCU\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce

---

To add new entries:
```powershell
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run" -Name "TestProgram" -Value "C:\Users\Quickemu\Downloads\test.exe"
```

### HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon

The Winlogon registry key is used primarily to configure how Windows interacts with the logon process.

Read item properties of Winlogon
```powershell
Get-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon" 
```
- Here, under Shell, we can see it uses `explorer.exe`

Possible value names:
- Shell
```powershell
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon" -Name "Shell" -Value "cmd.exe"
```

After changing this if you logout and then back in again, you will notice that it starts `cmd.exe` and nothing else. So how do you change it back?

1. Start powershell
```cmd
powershell
```

2. Increase privileges 
```powershell
Start-Process -FilePath "powershell.exe" -Verb RunAs
```

3. Check property path again to see how we change Shell to `cmd.exe`
```powershell
Get-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon" 
```

4. Change back to `explorer.exe`
```powershell
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon" -Name "Shell" -Value "explorer.exe"
```

5. Log out
```powershell 
logoff
```

- Userinit
```powershell
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon" -Name "Userinit" -Value "C:\Windows\system32\userinit.exe"
```

--- 
## References

Registry Hives: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/sysinfo/registry-hives

The Windows Registry Adventure #4: Hives and the registry layout: https://googleprojectzero.blogspot.com/2024/10/the-windows-registry-adventure-4-hives.html

Mysteries of the Registry: https://scorpiosoftware.net/2022/04/15/mysteries-of-the-registry/

Course Material: https://github.com/LeonardoE95/yt-en/blob/main/src/2024-12-19-windows-privesc-critical-registry-paths/content/notes.txt