As you compile findings during your testing phases, you will be recording the output of tools that you run, all vulnerabilities found, and general observations of insecure systems resulting from failure to use best practices. By itself, such data is normally not very useful in understanding the impact or risk to the specific environment being tested.

Let’s say you run an automated vulnerability scanner such as Nessus against a Linux server that you found accessible on the internal network. The vulnerability scanner might indicate that it has an FTP server running on port 21. The FTP server software that is running the target host is up to date, and there is no indication from the vulnerability scanner that this is an issue. However, as you continue to discover additional information about the environment you are testing, you determine that this Linux server is actually accessible from the Internet.

You then discover, based on conversations with the server owner, that this FTP server was supposed to be decommissioned many years ago. After looking at the logs of the FTP server, you find that employees are still using it to store and transfer sensitive information. This, of course, is a major concern that would not have been uncovered by just reading a vulnerability report. This specific example illustrates why it is so important to analyze the results of your testing and correlate them to the actual environment. It is the only way to really understand the risk, and this understanding should be carefully conveyed in your report. Most reports provide an indication of risk on a scale of high, medium, and low. A quality report provides an accurate rating based on the risk to the actual environment and a detailed root cause analysis for each vulnerability.

If you are a third-party penetration tester who has been hired to perform a test for a customer, the report is your final deliverable. It is also proof of the work you performed and the findings that came from the effort. It is similar to having a home inspection on a home you want to purchase: The inspector will likely spend hours around the house, checking in the attic, crawl space, and so on. At the end of the day, you will want to have a detailed report on the inspector’s findings so that you can address any issues found. If the inspector were to provide you with an incomplete report or a report containing false findings, you would not feel that you had gotten your money’s worth. You would also run into issues if you tried to address the issues with the seller of the house. Similarly, when you turn over a penetration testing report to a customer, the customer will begin addressing the findings in the report. The customer may begin deploying upgrades or purchasing new equipment based on your recommendations. If the customer finds that one of the reported findings was a false positive, this may cost the customer a lot of money and time, and the customer would likely not hire you back for a follow-up engagement – and that isn’t necessarily a good thing.

Now consider the case of an internal penetration test. Let’s say you are performing an application audit on an internally developed web application. You note in your report that there is an SQL injection flaw in one of the input fields of the application, but you do not validate the finding. Typically, you would turn over this report to management, who would then task the application developer with addressing the issue. Of course, the application developer would want to find a fix for this defect as soon as possible. He or she would likely commit time to researching and mitigating the issue. If after spending time and money on hunting down the cause of this flaw, it is determined to be a false positive, the application developer would come back to you as the tester for answers. If it turned out that you didn’t validate the result, the application developer would not be happy – and you could be sure your management would hear about it.

Of course, these are just two scenarios that illustrate the importance of quality report writing. There can be other impacts as well, including compromised systems due to false negatives. However, we now move on to discussing what a quality report is and how to accomplish it.

---

Practice - Common Themes/Root Causes

**Q.** In the Pixel Paradise engagement, you have found an undocumented server that is reachable from the internet. What's more, it appears that the enterprise firewall was altered to permit access to the server from outside. In order to determine the root cause of these vulnerabilities, and recommend mitigation, what should you do?

**A.** When a vulnerability is found, follow-up interviews with staff responsible for the vulnerable system may uncover non-technical factors, such as work practices or policies, that contribute to the actual root cause of the problem.

