**Home Network Basics**
Most home networks consist of at least two separate networks. The public network coming in from the service provider. The router is connected to the internet. Most likely, the home router is equipped with both wired and wireless capabilities. A home network is a small LAN with devices that usually connect to an integrated router and to each other in order to exchange information.

Wireless technology is fairly easy and inexpensive to install. Advantages of wireless LAN technology include mobility, scalability, flexibility, cost savings, reduced installation time, and reliability in harsh environments.

In addition to an integrated router, there are many different types of devices that might be connecting to a home network, Examples include desktop computers, gaming systems, smart tv systems, printers, scanners, security cameras, and climate control devices.

Small business and home routers typically have two primary types of ports: Ethernet ports and internet ports. In addition to the wired ports, many home routers include a radio antenna and a built-in wireless access point.

**Network Technologies in the Home**
Wireless technologies use electromagnetic waves to carry information between devices. The electromagnetic spectrum includes such things as radio and television broadcast bands, visible light, x-rays, and gamma-rays. Some types of electromagnetic waves are not suitable for carrying data. Other parts of the spectrum are regulated by governments and licensed to various organizations for specific applications.

Certain unlicensed sections of the spectrum are incorporated into consumer products, including the Wi-Fi routers found in most homes. The wireless technologies most frequently used in home networks are in the unlicensed 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz frequency ranges. Bluetooth is a technology that makes use of the 2.4 GHz band. Other technologies that use the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands are the modern wireless LAN technologies that conform to the various IEEE 802.11 standards. Unlike Bluetooth technology, 802.11 devices transmit at a much higher power level giving them a great range and improved throughput.

Although many home network devices support wireless communications, there are still a few applications where devices benefit from a wired switch connection. The most commonly implemented wired protocol is the Ethernet protocol. Directly connected devices use an Ethernet patch cable, usually unshielded twisted pair. Category 5e is the most common wiring used in a LAN. The cable is made up of 4 pairs of wires that are twisted to reduce electrical interference. For those homes that do not have UTP wiring, there are other technologies, such as powerline, that can distribute wired connectivity throughout the premises.

**Wireless Standards**
The IEEE 802.11 standard governs the WLAN environment. Wireless standards for LANs use the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz frequency bands. Collectively these technologies are referred to as Wi-Fi. The Wi-Fi Alliance is responsible for testing wireless LAN devices from different manufacturers.

Wireless routers using the 802.11 standards have multiple settings that have to be configured. These settings include the following:

- **Network mode** - Determines the type of technology that must be supported. For example, 802.11b, 802.11g, 802.11n or Mixed Mode.
- **Network Name (SSID)** - Used to identify the WLAN. All devices that wish to participate in the WLAN must have the same SSID.
- **Standard Channel** - Specifies the channel over which communication will occur. By default, this is set to Auto to allow the access point (AP) to determine the optimum channel to use.
- **SSID Broadcast** - Determines if the SSID will be broadcast to all devices within range. By default, set to Enabled.

The 802.11 protocol can provide increased throughput based on the wireless network environment. If all wireless devices connect with the same 802.11 standard, maximum speeds can be obtained for that standard. If the access point is configured to accept only one 802.11 standard, devices that do not use that standard cannot connect to the access point. A mixed mode wireless network environment can include devices that use any of the existing Wi-Fi standards.

When building a wireless network, it is important that the wireless components connect to the appropriate WLAN. This is done using the SSID. The SSID is used to tell wireless devices, called STAs, which WLAN they belong to and with which other devices they can communicate. The SSID broadcast allows other devices and wireless clients to automatically discover the name of the wireless network. When the SSID broadcast is disabled, you must manually enter the SSID on wireless devices.

**Set Up a Home Router**
Many wireless routers designed for home use have an automatic setup utility that can be used to configure the basic settings on the router. To connect to the router using a wired connection, plug an Ethernet patch cable into the network port on the computer. Plug the other end into a LAN port on the router.

After the computer is connected to the network router and the link lights on the NIC indicate a working connection, the computer needs an IP address. Most network routers are set up so that the computer receives an IP address automatically from a local DHCP server automatically configured on the wireless router.

Before entering the configuration utility, or manually configuring the router through a web browser, you should consider how your network will be used. Consider what you will call your network and what devices should connect to your network. It is not a good practice to include the device model or brand name as part of the SSID since internet searches can expose security weaknesses.

The decision regarding who can access your home network should be determined by how you plan to use the network. Many routers support MAC address filtering. This enables you to specifically identify who is allowed on the wireless network. This makes the wireless network more secure, but it also less flexible when connecting new devices. On some wireless routers, it is possible to set up guest access. This is a special SSID coverage area that allows open access but restricts that access to using the internet only.

