## User Account Control (UAC)

UAC is a feature that helps manage when and how applications run with elevated privileges. It requires users to explicitly authorize or authenticate before a process can gain elevated permissions.

Application are started with the least privileges needed, which is typically a medium integrity level, even for logged in as an administrator.

Then, when an application requests higher integrity levels, a prompt is used to ask for confirmation.

UAC can have different configuration levels:

Example:
```sh
0 -> no prompt
1 -> prompt for credentials on the secure desktop
2 -> prompt for consent on the secure desktop
3 -> prompt for credentials on the normal desktop
4 -> prompt for consent on the normal desktop
5 -> prompt for consent for non-windows binaries
```

Notice here the difference between `secure desktop` and `normal desktop`.

- **Secure Desktop** (Level 1, Level 2)

Provide a levle of isolation from all other running applications to prevent malicious software from interacting with the UAC prompt.

The Secure Desktop provides an added layer of security, ensuring that only trusted system processes (like UAC) can run on it.

- **Normal Desktop** (Level 3, Level 4)

The Normal Desktop allows other programs and windows to remain active and interact with the user while the UAC prompt is on-screen. This is less secure because other applications can potentially interact with or manipulate the UAC dialog.

## Mandatory Integrity Control (MIC)

MIC is a core security that uses integrity levels to enforce access control policies that limit the interactions between processes of different privilege levels.

MIC enforces restrictions by preventing lower-integrity processes from writing to or modifying higher-integrity objects.

There are four levels in MIC:
- Low
- Medium
- High
- System

## Relationship between UAC and MIC

MIC and UAC work together to restrict unauthorised access and manage privilege escalation.

- MIC provides the underlying enforcement mechanism for integrity levels, while UAC provides the user interface that prompts users to approve or deny elevation requests.

- When a standard application attempts to perform an action that requires elevated privileges, UAC triggers a prompt. If the user consents, the process's integrity level is elevated from medium to high.

To recap
- **MIC** - enforces a policy-based boundary based on integrity levels
- **UAC** - controls how and when processes can cross that boundary


