**Protego Security Solutions**

It is important that we are familiar with a wide range of social engineering attacks. It is also important that we follow cybersecurity information sources to learn about the attacks that are currently being used. For example, Protego monitors honeypot email accounts to track how phishing tactics change. For a while we were seeing emails that advertised false offers and discounts at popular retailers. Later, emails appeared that contained false notification that the recipient had won prizes or other rewards. Now we are getting emails that say that the recipient is subject to a product recall of some kind. Clicking links or attachments in these emails often leads to malware downloads, including ransomware. Phishing attempts are extremely common. Sometimes we see several phishing emails arrive at the server per day. One day we saw five. In addition, they are constantly changing.

Our profession requires that we are always up-to-date on emerging threats.

---

A social engineering attack leverages the weakest link in an organization, which is the human user. If an attacker can get a user to reveal information, it is much easier for the attacker to cause harm than it is by using some other method of reconnaissance. Social engineering can be accomplished through email or misdirection of web pages and prompting a user to click something that leads to the attacker gaining information. Social engineering can also be done in person by an insider or an outside entity or over the phone.

A primary example is attackers leveraging normal user behavior. Suppose that you are a security professional who is in charge of the network firewalls and other security infrastructure equipment in your company. An attacker could post a job offer for a very lucrative position and make it very attractive to you, the victim. Suppose the job description lists benefits and compensation far beyond what you are making at your company. You decide to apply for the position. The criminal (attacker) then schedules an interview with you. Because you are likely to “show off” your skills and work, the attacker may be able to get you to explain how you have configured the firewalls and other network infrastructure devices for your company. You might disclose information about the firewalls used in your network, how you have configured them, how they were designed, and so on. This would give the attacker a lot of knowledge about the organization without requiring the attacker to perform any type of scanning or reconnaissance on the network.

