Because phishing has been an effective tactic for threat actors, they have found ways other than using email to fool their victims into following malicious links or activating malware from emails. Phishing campaigns often use text messages to send malware or malicious links to mobile devices.

One example of **_Short Message Service (SMS) phishing_** is the bitcoin-related SMS scams that have surfaced in recent years. Numerous victims have received messages instructing them to click on links to confirm their accounts and claim bitcoin. When a user clicks such a link, he or she may be fooled into entering sensitive information on that attacker’s site.

You can help mitigate SMS phishing attacks by not clicking on links from any unknown message senders. Sometimes attackers spoof the identity of legitimate entities (such as your bank, your Internet provider, social media platforms, Amazon, or eBay). You should not click on any links sent via text messages if you did not expect such a message to be sent to you. For example, if you receive a random message about a problem with an Amazon order, do not click on that link. Instead, go directly to Amazon’s website, log in, and verify on the Amazon website whether there is a problem. Similarly, if you receive a message saying that there is a problem with a credit card transaction or a bill, call the bank directly instead of clicking on a link. If you receive a message telling you that you have won something, it’s probably an SMS phishing attempt, and you should not click the link.

