IoT is an incredibly broad term that can be applied across personal devices, **_industrial control systems (ICS)_**, transportation, and many other businesses and industries. Designing and securing IoT systems – (including **_supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)_**, **_Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT)_**, and ICS – involves a lot of complexity. For instance, IoT solutions have challenging integration requirements, and IoT growth is expanding beyond the support capability of traditional IT stakeholders (in terms of scalability and the skills required). Managing and orchestrating IoT systems introduces additional complexity due to disparate hardware and software, the use of legacy technologies, and, often, multiple vendors and integrators. IoT platforms must integrate a wide range of IoT edge devices with varying device constraints and must be integrated to back-end business applications. In addition, no single solution on the market today can be deployed across all IoT scenarios.

The IoT market is extremely large and includes multiple platform offerings from startups as well as very large vendors. In many cases, IoT environments span a range of components that include sensors, gateways, network connectivity, applications, and cloud infrastructure. The unfortunate reality is that most IoT security efforts today focus on only a few elements of the entire system. A secure IoT platform should provide the complete end-to-end infrastructure to build an IoT solution, including the software, management, and security to effectively collect, transform, transport, and deliver data to provide business value. This is, of course, easier said than done.

